now breaking news this hour is the
political leader of Hamas Ismael Hana
has been assassinated in Iran he and one
of his bodyguards were killed in a
strike in tran State media say he was
staying in a special residence for War
veterans when the attack happened at
about 2: a.m. local time Iran says it's
investigating the killing and tamas says
the assassination will not go
unanswered well Palestinian Authority
president mmud Abbas has released a
statement saying he strongly condemns
the assassination of Hamas leader is m
Han as a cowardly act and a dangerous
development he also called on
Palestinians to unite and be patient and
steadfast in the face of Israeli
occupation bakti who is a politician and
Secretary General of the Palestinian
national initiative he joins us uh on
Skype from rala thanks very much for
being with us on Al jazer on what is
another remarkable day uh here first of
all just how surprised were you when you
first heard the news that is Hana was
assassin uned in
Iran of course it was a surprise that he
was assassinated in Iran but it wasn't a
surprised that Netanyahu could do such a
crime I think what Israel did is a grave
criminal cowardly political
assassination something that nobody
should accept but Netanyahu is clear
here what you have in Israel now is a
fascist government in every sense of the
word and I think the rise of fascism in
Israel is now trying to push the whole
region into a global
confrontation uh what Netanyahu did is a
very clear indication that he wants a
regional war and he wants even to drag
to drag the United States into a
confrontation with Iran not only with
Palestinians so it's a grave grave
development and what is most surprising
is to hear a person like the Secretary
of Defense from the United States Austin
saying that United States will defend
Israel they're allowing Israel to act as
a criminal fascist
attacking and killing people in Lebanon
attacking and killing people in tahan
attacking and killing Palestinians
committing a terrible war crimes
terrible war crimes like genocide and
Collective punishment and yet they want
to defend the criminal the aggressor the
attacker that is really very serious and
it shows that the United States has no
wisdom whatsoever in responding to what
Netanyahu is doing but I emphasize what
you see today is really a rise of
fashion in Israel you've seen what these
fascists did in stim man the Israeli
prison you've seen what they are doing
now and in my opinion both Netanyahu and
Galant and other Israeli leaders are
trying to save their skin by expanding
this confrontation expanding this war
and uh because they want to save
themselves well you're talking about the
potential for Global confrontation and
uh the escalation right now we've
obviously heard from Iran supreme leader
who says uh that it is Iran's Duty uh to
avenge his death uh with hamas's armed
Wing has said uh the his killing will
have enormous consequences and Iran's
revolutionary guard has just put out a
statement saying it will be met with a
harsh and painful response so what sort
of response do you think we can expect
from
Iran I think Iran was put in a very
difficult position because if it doesn't
respond it would lose it would it will
lose a lot of of its uh its uh status in
the region so I am sure there will be a
response uh and the question here is
first of all will this Israeli
assassination break the Palestinian
resistance on the contrary it will
strengthen it will it break Hamas on the
opposite every assassination before has
strengthened any resistance groups that
was subjected to such
atrocity uh but will this lead to
Palestinian Unity that's what we hope
for that's what we need now a
Palestinian unified leadership a
Palestinian unified leadership in front
of this and of course Iran will have to
respond and that's exactly what
Netanyahu wants Netanyahu wants to
expand this war wants to make it a
regional confrontation and the only
country in the world that can restrain
now these fascists in Israel is the
United States of America if it wants to
do so if it doesn't then it's going to
to be playing in a very dangerous game
that could threaten the whole region
yeah it's obviously still very early in
the morning in the United States at this
point in time what are you expecting
what are you hoping to hear uh when uh
the United States wakes up and we start
getting more lines uh from the political
players
there if they still have any reason left
they should condemn what Hamas what what
Israel did they should condemn Israel
for this assassination they should force
Israel to accept a ceasefire agreement
and start a process of deescalation but
I am not sure they will do that I think
they wouldn't unfortunately natany has
been dragging Biden behind him during
the last 10 months he has dragged Nat
Biden and the American Administration
not only in supporting his genocide but
actually in participating in it and
there will be horrifying consequences to
that what is really surprising to me is
where is the Strategic mind in United
States if they get involved now in a
confrontation with Iran in the Middle
East which is exactly what Netanyahu has
been dreaming about this is exactly what
Netanyahu pushed for when he pushed the
United States to cancel the agreement
with Iran if they go in that direction
what will happen to their position
strategically worldwide I think it's a
very dangerous situation but at the end
of the day one has to understand and
people have to understand that what
Israel has done will not break the
Palestinian resistance will not break
the Palestinian people's will to achieve
our freedom on the contrary what Israel
has done has convinced every Palestinian
man woman and child that our future our
Liberation our freedom cannot happen
without resisting this terrible
occupation and resisting these terrible
crimes that are committed against our
people Mustafa as always we really do
appreciate your time and your insight
into this Mustafa pouti there for us uh
from rala
make sure to subscribe to our channel to
get the latest news from Al jazer